<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: © 2025 Authors of the ROAR-NET API Specification <https://github.com/roar-net/roar-net-api-spec/blob/main/AUTHORS>

SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0
-->

# Move

```text
Move
```

## Description

The `Move` type identifies the changes between two neighbouring
solutions.  Formally, for a problem instance \\(\pi\\), candidate
solution space \\(S_{\pi}\\), and a neighbourhood structure \\({\cal
N}(\pi) \subseteq \(S_{\pi}\times S_{\pi}\)\\), there is an instance 
of `Move` for every pair of candidate solutions, \\(s, s' 
\in S_{\pi}\\), \\(s,s'\\) in \\(\cal N(\pi)\\) containing the 
information used by an operator function \\(\delta\\) that applied 
to \\(s\\) yields \\(s'\\), that is, \\(s'=\delta(s)\\). The operation 
`apply` implements the operator function.

It follows that a particular neighbourhood structure \\({\cal N}(\pi)
\subseteq \(S_{\pi}\times S_{\pi}\)\\) can be fully represented by a 
collection of operator functions \\(\Delta\\) and that for each 
candidate solution \\(s\in S\\) the neighbourhood set \\(N(s)\\) 
associated to \\(\cal N\\) is generated by a subset of operator 
functions \\(\Delta(s) \subseteq \Delta\\). Hence, \\(s'\in N(s) \iff
s'=\delta(s),\delta\in\Delta(s)\\). For each solution \\(s\\) the
operator functions \\(\delta \in \Delta(s)\\) are described by a set
of instantiations of `Moves` that is generated by move generators,
like the operations `moves`.

As an example, for candidate solutions that are linear permutations, a
possible neighbourhood structure defines as neighbouring two solutions
if they differ only in the position of two adjacent elements in the
permutation. This neighbourhood structure can be represented by a
`Move` with information about the position of the first element to
swap. The operator function that uses this information will change the
element indexed by `Move` with the following element in the
permutation. The generator `moves` will instantiate all moves that are
needed to reach all neighbouring solutions. In this case, there are as
many moves as are the elements in the permutation each specifying a
different index.

## Use cases

Each neighbourhood structure defines its own moves that are generated
by move generators such as `moves` and are used by the operator
`apply` to implement the changes to the solution. Hence, we need a
different definition for `Move`, `moves` and `apply` for each
neighbourhood structure.

## See also

[Neighbourhood](./Neighbourhood.md),
[Solution](./Solution.md),
[moves](../operations/moves.md),
[apply\_move](../operations/apply_move.md),
[invert\_move](../operations/invert_move.md),
[lower\_bound\_increment](../operations/lower_bound_increment.md),
[objective\_value\_increment](../operations/objective_value_increment.md).
